in Allah he says
verily is an enemy of yours that he's
not just an enemy sitting on the
sideline he's an enemy with an agenda
listening to music is a major and the S
cursed itan is charged with hatred and
animosity and jealousy towards bani Adam
he causes them doubt in their Dean if
the the youth are not careful and they
follow this and they lend their e to
these matters no doubt it causes
this doubt in their heart and it grows
and it grows and they continue to doubt
he tricks and deceives the human being
and how he's always persistent upon him
until this person loses his Dean
altogether
[Music]
welcome to another episode of The
Strangers podcast my name is is back
next to me alhamdulillah and we have
with us today it's our honor to
welcome for joining us
today this is an honor ald privilege to
be with young Brothers like yourself ask
Allah subhana to reward you for your
goodness and for everyone that's
contributing behind the scenes
um I think before we start I think we
should talk about who our biggest enemy
is let us know who this individual is
Subhan Allah and we've just come from Al
right um that was the last thing that we
had done before I came here um and
Subhan Allah I remember I was sitting
with the and I brought the attention to
something I said to him brothers and
sisters the ha that we just did over six
days
there was one action that we repeated so
many times what was that so everyone was
quick to realize that it was the
stoning the stoning is done on the day
of we stone that wall 7even times and
then on the last days of Al which are
the three days of mina we Stone the
small and the medium and the big jamarat
seven stones seven stones seven stones
we do that on the next day and we do
that on the third day so we do the
stoning a total of 10 times the most
repeated action during Al and it comes
towards the end of Al and we shared with
them a reflection why is that the case
when we're stoning this wall we are
declaring our enemity to our biggest
enemy which is no
doubt and we do it towards the end of Al
because
is going to be so determined to ruin you
after so you're repeating this action of
stoning a total of 70 Stones declaring
your enemity to the greatest enemy
you'll ever face in life and that
is and that you're learning it
physically physically you're doing it
with your own hand moving from place to
place we of course all know this
significance of these three um walls
that we are stoning and that's where
presented to ibim trying to deter him
from the Commandment of Allah to
slaughter his son andan will even be
there just before you perform the act of
worship or the act that Allah has
commanded you to do he whispered to him
three times and he would Stone him in
every time so it's unbelievable in
which is a pillar of Islam and you're
learning this lesson so after Al you now
know that the biggest enemy and the
greatest obstacle that stands between
you and your relationship with Allah is
no doubt a now Subhan Allah Subhan Allah
and speaks about
howan has a seven step plan to destroy
us we think that Allan wants us to do is
commit sh or commit the major sins but
Subhan Allah there there are so many
more steps uh before that and the the
first obviously the first and most
preferred thing for sh to do is to to
take someone into so speak to us about
how a person could go from being a
Muslim all the way
to so of
course in one of his outstanding works
and all his works are outstanding you
find that his books I I like to describe
his works as a garden you know when a
person enters a garden he sees a rose
from he picks it up sees a flower from
he takes it up and mallah that's his
works you enter this garden and you pick
and you choose what you like of them and
so from one of his fascinating works is
that he speaks about
aan and uh how he tricks and deceives
the human being and how he's always
persistent upon
him until this person look loses his de
altogether Allah in the Quran he
says that's the first matter that we are
supposed to look at
in he says
verily is an enemy of
yours to you all of you mankind men
women the young the old the religious
the righteous The Sinner the she the
worshiper that's sitting in the Masjid
praying no matter where you are and what
your Dean is at what
level he's an enemy of yours and an
enemy is only an enemy because he plans
against you that's what an enemy is
otherwise a friend is someone that
supports you and encourages you upon the
good and an enemy is someone who plots
and plans against you so already just by
this fact that Allah
says we now know that he's not just an
enemy sitting on the sideline he's an
enemy with an agenda with a plan his
plan is to take us with him to Janam we
ask Allah to save us right and that what
that's his promise he said you know
um he
said he promised he said by Allah by
your
might I'm going to deceive them all and
you will hardly find any of them
practicing gratitude to and he's out on
a mission right and don't forget aan is
charged with hatred and animosity and
jealousy towards bani Adam and that's
when he refused to make a
s and as a result he was thrown out of
the paradise so he's full of rage
against B Adam so that's him being
that's what means Allah then
said take him as an enemy treat him as
an enemy what does that mean you see
people today have enemies we don't love
everyone right we have people we love we
have enemies we know of people out there
that want to harm us and want to plan
against us and so on so people like that
when they affect me emotionally for
example right they they they speak about
create boundaries for yourself people
that are poisonous and harmful and toxic
in your life take them out you know what
your limits are don't associate with
people that are harmful to you and your
your mental Wellness uh your emotional
health and so on get rid of them okay we
know how to deal with that when it comes
to other human beings that are no good
for us delete his number from the phone
block him on social media and we know
how to treat an enemy yeah like Allah
he's telling us
yeah take him as an enemy of
yours so the same
attitude we will do with an enemy of
ours in this worldly life deal with him
in the same manner block him out of your
life right be aware of his plan if I
know of an enemy of mine I always like
to know what's he up to what's he
planning against me how can
I you know how can I how can I can I
protect and defend myself so we just
sharing this a now to speak about how
Allah is teaching us to be aware of his
plan brother you're bringing our
attention to's work but we first need to
explain why is his work
important why do we need to know of his
plan why do do we need to know of his
agenda treat him as an enemy how can I
treat him as an enemy if I don't know
what his plan is what his agenda is how
he plans to attack me and deceive me
and one of his plans is as Allah
highlights at the end of this Ayah that
he calls on his party so that they may
be from among the people of the fire so
his plan is to get you to the fire his
plan is to get you to the fire
permanently
permanently those that revive that
reside in the fire permanently are
disbelievers that's why his first trick
would be to make you fall into disbelief
right that's his first plan he wants you
to become
a so that you may reside in the Hellfire
eternally alongside
him now so that's the idea of the first
matter how does he um bring a person
into disbelief into
kuur he causes them doubt in their Dean
right that's the probably best and
easiest way to make a person fall into
disbelief cause him doubt into his de
doubting the afterlife doubting the
existence of
Allah doubting the Hellfire the
paradise
doubting the existence of angels and so
on everything that is unseen to the
eye and uh these matters now are rampant
among Society due to this life that we
live and these ideologies that are
poisonous and toxic that are spreading
around the world
many people today don't believe in God
right many atheists around us
universities are full of atheism
students debating And discussing among
one another uh a lot of these influences
online that people follow they have no
God no Allah in their life live your
life the way you want and this if the
the youth are not careful and they
follow this and they lend their e to
these matters no doubt it causes uh
this's doubt in their heart and it
begins to it's like a seed placed in of
course and it grows and it grows and
they continue to doubt and add to that
they're not seeking knowledge they're
not learning because knowledge the
knowledge of the Quran is a remedy to
these matters you read an Ayah it
destroys any doubt that is in your heart
you know and how Allah describes the
stars as being uh um like a a missile
against the when they used to go up to
hear the the from the
sky so the of the Quran are like stars
they shoot the doubts that are in the
heart and eliminate all these doubts so
we come back this young youth listening
to these doubts not seeking anything of
beneficial Knowledge from the Quran what
do you think is going to happen the
doubt grows grows grows to the point
where he says I don't believe in Islam
anymore I don't believe in Allah
anymore would have achieved the first
thing he wanted and that is making a
person fall into
disbelief and if a person fell into this
belief he resides with a in the Hellfire
forever and that's what he wants
right he said
in thatan
himself when he was removed from the
paradise he said to
Allah his plan against mankind he said
I'm going I'm going to come to them
attack them from in between their hands
in front of
them and I'm going to attack them from
behind
them and I will attack them from their
right and I will attack them from their
left
said attacking us from the front meaning
he'll cause us doubt in our future
matters so we will doubt the par
Paradise which is a future matter we
doubt
the has knowledge of we doubt Allah
these are all matters of the Unseen and
in front of us and I will come and
attack them from behind meaning he will
tempt us to fall into the pleasures of
this worldly life and he'll attack us
from the right meaning distract us from
the Good Deeds because the Good Deeds
are ascribed to the right and he'll
attack us from the left meaning he'll
reel us into sins major sins minor sins
and so on and then he
said you will hardly see any of them
grateful here
means once again meaning you'll hardly
find any of them upholding and your
Oneness meaning they'll become that's
what he planned and that's what he said
that's what he promised and that's what
he's working on and that's why says the
first plan of a is to make a person
believe in Allah Subhan any doubt you
have in Allah and you give into that
doubt and you believe it a person
becomes a cfir and if you declare it on
your tongue and you preach it and that's
what you believe now a person becomes a
cfir ask Allah to save us no if thean
doesn't succeed in
that tells us that the next thing will
be that thean will invite us
to Subhan Allah that's his Second Step
but before we move on to the second step
maybe it's very important to um maybe
it's very important to mention uh we're
saying that the first step is that he
puts them into or leads them to kuur we
want to probably discuss how can a
person save himself from this first step
especially today a lot of I find a lot
of Youth continue to ask about okay what
about the doubts I have in my my mind
and in my heart concerning Islam I doubt
I have doubts and I'm worried am I now A
C with these doubts that I have right
they they they say I got doubts is there
a paradise is there a Hellfire bro is
this such thing as a shaan and an angel
does Allah exist where is he if there's
so much troubles on Earth and so on man
I don't know what to believe anymore so
the young youth has this problem in his
heart and in his mind there these doubts
are lingering and they come from time to
time he's standing in his Salat doubts
are there he comes to the Masjid doubts
are there so the young youth becomes
worried have I now fallen into the first
trap of aan and have I left Islam or not
so we address this matter in a in a few
minutes to say that my dear young
brother and sister in Islam relax relax
that's not kuur rather you'll be
surprised to to know what it is and it
actually was mentioned in a Hadith of
the Messenger s alai wasallam some of
the companions came to
S and they said to
him we find some disturbing evil
thoughts in our hearts and Minds during
the
prayer yeah they describe it and they
say that we'd rather burn and become
charcoal than speak them out and tell
you what they are
yeah and I don't know what's in their
mind something really really disturbing
of great severe
doubts and they're worried just like the
young youth is worried now so they asked
the best one to be
asked and he said to him or said to them
know do you really find these matters
they said yes he said to them look how
beautiful this
is he said then that is a clear sign of
E
how can that be it's not the thoughts
that are Ean it's the fact that they are
consistently coming to you and you are
fighting them not believing and giving
into them that's what Iman is because
remember Shan is not going to attack
those on his side the disbeliever is a
disbeliever he's got him on his side
he's going to attack those that are
still not on his side so when the Shan
casts these doubt into your mind doubts
ofur matters of
disbelief you're against the you're not
on his side and if you fight these
thoughts by
saying like says comes to you on Sal and
tells you who created you who created
you who created this who created until
he tells you and you tell him Allah and
then he tells you who created Allah just
say I believe in Allah imagine this
question
who created Allah that's not that's not
a good question but even if it came to
your mind just say I believe in Allah so
when the Shan
consistently targets you with these kind
of evil thoughts you
respond and don't give into these
thoughts don't utter them that's a sign
of IM not a sign of kufur so you haven't
fallen into this first plan of aan
alhamdulillah and that's why I think it
was some of the people of the book came
to him and they were trying
to make a mockery and fun of the
Believers they said to
them they said to we don't experience
evil whispering in our prayer you we're
clean we come we pray our prayers we're
all good so he said to
them what's thean going to do with a
destroyed heart anyway the people are
already on his side why is he going to
come to you he's going to come to those
that are still against him that are
still seeking Allah's protection from
him he want to grab them and put them in
his party n so uh we just wanted to
address this issue because you find it
among the youth very uh like a prevalent
issue among them so alhamdulillah that's
a sign of IM relax don't give into the
swords
the believer says it 100 times in the
morning that clear you from any doubt
you do your prayers after after the
prayers that removes those doubts that
you had and you were distracted by in
things are all good just be a Muslim
maintain your prayers your Quran your
and that cycle of goodness flushes out
all these kind of doubts that come from
aan now so now we move on nowto the yeah
okay so that's the second step of Shan
what is no and how let's start off with
what is B okay soan can't get you
into the second thing he's going to try
is to make you fall into an innovation
a putting it very simple out to our
brothers and sisters in Islam is any act
of worship that a person does seeking
nearness to Allah and it has no proof
from the Quran or
whatsoever simply that is what a is
right so let's say I wanted to now um
pray a type of prayer right
between and I wanted to say that it's
obligatory I obligate it upon myself and
I'm seeking nearness and closeness to
Allah and I'm going to say I give it any
name right whatever it is I gave it a
name and I said this is going to be five
okay is something good being in and
reading Quran and standing facing is
wonderful but brother and sister this
kind of deed you're doing has no proof
from the Quran
ornah a very basic example of what a is
an innovation and it is very dangerous
it is very
dangerous could be one of two things it
could either be
a that is more to the kuur side
disbelief as a result a person falls
into disbelief or it could a be or it
could be a in where a person ends up uh
having a major sin counted against him
so that's it either falls into the sh
aspect or into the major sin aspect
right when s wasam of course he warned
against this he said
anyone who innovates into this religion
of ours meaning brings a foreign worship
brings some things out makes something
up and brings it into the dean and makes
it a part of
it he's rejected he's rejected right a
person becomes an
innovator and that's why we need to be
careful with Shan will make people
and tempt them to
do well Subhan Allah you find in this
day and age that we're in Innovations
are widespread and they rampant
especially I find it uh increasing when
it comes
to and certain types of Dua so you have
certain sects they teach their
followers say this a thousand times in
the morning and Allah will provide for
you that when you teach the people to
say a certain with a certain number of
times and then you promise them
something well that needs a that needs
AI doesn't exist that's
a that's a right they'll tell you
read and Allah will save you from this
and this okay where is the proof and you
know how some of these people trick
their
followers it sounds delicious it sounds
juicy it sounds great because I'm
telling him do a
worship so then the young brother and
sister gets confused hey what do you
mean it's a b what do you mean this is
worse than a major sin I'm worshiping
Allah how can it be bad that's where the
confusion happens and and and and it's
not like where against the good that
you're doing but we're saying to be
doing it in this specific way see in
closeness to Allah when there is no
proof for it that's what a is so that's
why we need to be careful
from condemned this matter in the Quran
saying is there any Partners out there
alongside
Allah that uh legislated things for
people when the reality was Allah never
gave permission for it the only one that
can legislate matters in a de
wasam that's it he's
called the one who legislates because he
does so by the Commandment of Allah and
he does so as a means through now has
died there's no more there's no more
legislating new
things
says today I have completed and
perfected your religion completed and
that was revealed on the day of in the
one and
only said that means Allah completed the
acts of worship that we have to do and
he completed his Commandments upon us
and his prohibitions upon us and
everything has been done and dusted
that's it it is not allowed for anyone
to innovate something new for the people
and tell them let's do this right soan
will bring the people into
this and it's very easy to fall into
this trap all he has to do is say this
is a worship can't be wrong you're
worshiping Allah can't be wrong but we
got to be very careful you know like
imagine I told the brother and the
sister instead of praying four brother
why don't you pray at six it's good more
more an opportunity to make Dua why not
everyone here will be on the same page
to say no as you said make it sound
delicious it sound good yeah why not six
more doesn't Allah love more but the
vast majority of our brothers and
sisters if not all of them will say no
what the hell are you doing
is well exactly yes even though and
praying is is good but why you limit
limiting it to four the answer would be
because that's how we're taught that's
what the Quran that's what wasallam did
that's what he taught us so I say that's
for everything else any kind kind of
worship you're going to do fundamentally
it is not allowed to do unless there's
proof for it you see we pray five daily
prayers fundamentally we shouldn't pray
anything we only pray because there's
proof of praying we only fast Ramadan
because there's proof we do ha and
everything of the actions we do in ha
because there's proof the way we do
zakat and distribute it because there's
proof and every type of worship we do
because there's proof so the the very
same day you're going to try to do a
worship thinking it's good wait we don't
want your thinking we want what's in
here if there's proof for it go ahead
and do it no proof that's exactly what
is so be careful and don't fall in that
trick of a now sorry to interrupt but do
you want to go to well you're in luck
because the stranger studio and Preston
mosque are partnering with Alat travel
to take a group in September with and
now I know you're probably wondering how
much is going to cost am I going to be
able to pay it off in one go well it's
okay just get in touch with us inshallah
and we'll give you all the information
but just know it's going to be an
absolutely amazing time bullet trains
fivar hotels five star Airline quad
biking all the activities the leadership
the reminders everything that you could
possibly need inshallah all in the one
trip can't wait to see you
there it's it's interesting CU we'll
move on to the third third step of shaan
which is major sins and and
comparatively speaking you'll never see
someone um or you'll hardly ever see
someone justifying a major sin and this
this actually shows you why has put
above major sins because a a person will
come and justify it and they'll even Bly
speak about it like we've seen people
speaking about and saying oh it's just
making Dua to the prophet it's just it's
it's just something small with a major
sin no one will justify and subh that's
why B is is is ranked above that um but
with major sins yeah how how does Allah
get someone who their whole life you
know they've just been uh you know
they've been Aid and and just you know
falling into minor sins but thenan gets
them to fall into the Trap of major sins
so how does that happen so that's a
great observation my brother b as to
why would mention the Innovation before
the major sin because the one who
practices an innovation is actually
thinking he's coming nearer and nearer
to Allah he'll never acknowledge he's
doing something wrong or there's a very
slight chance for him to do so whereas
the one who
engages uh in a major sin he knows it's
wrong and he's most likely to repent
from it if Allah opens up the door for
him right so at least he knows he's what
he's doing is wrong but the other one
thinks he's doing something that is
right and bringing him closer to Allah
so yeah we ask Allah to save us from
such an attitude
so if he can't get you to fall into the
B he'll get you into the major
sin well major sins are many but the
greatest of them are seven as
the referred to them
as
they seven major sins that throw a
person and lead him into the Hellfire
ask Allah to save us now so a person
needs to be careful
that he doesn't fall into that trap of
aan and where he reels him into the
major
sin um well major sins are many major
sins are many there is a book written by
IM uh I think it was
IM oh
no has the book there's another book
called is a book that document
all the major sins that we know of in
Islam and what's the definition of a
major sin the major sin is any bad
deed that Allah promised the Hellfire
for
it or he promised a certain punishment
it or AED that Allah cursed the one who
does
it and also if
wasam in theith was to promise the
Hellfire for a specific deed or curse
the one who does that specific deed that
is what defines a major sin right so for
example when we say theft is a major sin
that's because Allah said in the
Quran the thief with a male or female
chop their hand that's in the law of
Allah the fact that Allah
made legislated a worldly punishment for
this act that makes it a major sin right
but there are some sins that are
mentioned that are forbidden that have
no uh promise of any punishment to them
that's what a major a minor sin would be
right and the difference also is that
the way we identify a minor sin would be
anything that leads towards a major sin
anything that leads to a major sin all
those steps would be considered minor
right so that's very clear definition as
to what the major sin is so if you read
aith wasam
says Allah has cursed the one that
plucks the eyebrows and the plucker we
know that's a major sin because it was
ascribed to a curse and the curse means
to be removed from the mercy of
Allah so we identify that as a major sin
for example wasam
says the one who the one who
cheats is not from us cheats in business
cheats in his exams whatever it is he's
not from us you see this not from us
that means it's a major sin that defines
the major sin you're not from us what
does that mean means it's a major sin
right that's how
have described or explained this word so
he gets them to do major sins major
sins uh my brother bil
brother if a person does not repent from
them he has exposed himself to the
punishment of Allah on the day of
judgment and in his
grive that's the problem with major sins
that's the problem you've exposed
yourself if you die having not repented
from
them what will happen with you because
if meet Allah on the day of judgment
with shik major shik that that guy's
finished in Hellfire forever if you meet
Allah on the day of judgment with major
sins Z alcohol and all those major sins
any one of them you die and you did not
repent from them you're in serious
trouble because you are now exposed to
Allah's
punishment we call it under the will of
Allah
he may decide to punish you he may
decide to forgive you and let you go but
why would you put yourself in that so
what's the solution repent every time
you fall into a major sin repent because
the one who spent a lifetime doing major
sins and he repented from them a sincere
honest
repentance and he died upon a repentance
Allah will forgive him and not question
him about the major sins that he fell
into that's the reason for why we
continue to encourage ourselves to do a
Toba every single day major sins require
a a
repentance maybe just before we go on to
the the fourth
Point what are the conditions of
repentance for those who want to repent
very simple I remember I attend a
lecture for a
ofd many know him and I absolutely love
the way he made it so
simple and listen to this I I'll explain
it to you you'll never forget it he said
repentance a sincere repentance has
something to do with the past present
and
future the past that means you regret
what you did of sin because that's in
the past regretting is in the
past the present meaning you stop the
sin and you don't engage in that sin in
the present moment
future meaning you make an intention and
a commitment you will never go back to
that sin these are the conditions of a
Toba a condition that's related to the
past to the present and to the
Future that's how we make a Toba from
our sin and that requires a Toba what
Toba could be a Dua you make to Allah in
your prayers you perhaps may pray two
after a major sin asking
to Grant you
forgiveness my Lord I have wronged
myself you acknowledge the sin and if
you don't bestow your mercy and your
forgiveness upon me indeed I'll be a
loser like what Adam said and that's
they call
it and you
know says and that's something beautiful
to show you the need of this prayer
after a sin he said this prayer could be
prayed any time even in the times where
Salat is prohibited
subh after say imagine it was after and
you fell into a major
sin you are allowed to pray
two and this is in that intention for
Allah to forgive that sin of yours as in
the
of says anyone who did the sin and then
made a and then he prayed
Allah would forgive his sin said this
prayer is a voluntary prayer that may be
prayed any time even in the prohibited
times what does that mean it just shows
you how important it is to rush to a
Toba straight after your sin no matter
what time of day or night it was so if
you've fallen into this trap of major
sin make sure you follow it up with a
Toba to clear up that record now and
refresh that Toba every day because if
you die Upon A Toba from your major sins
Allah has forgiven this person and he
won't face a punishment in the Hereafter
yeah Subhan Allah Subhan Allah um we're
running short on time so we'll combine
inshallah the fifth uh sorry the fourth
and the fifth points so says the fourth
step is to make someone commit minor
sins and the fifth is to have them waste
time with things that are permissible I
think that's kind of the position that
most people are in you know kind of
struggling between those two things any
things that are and wasting too much
time doing them and falling into minor
sins right so if he's not able to get
you to do the major
sins the second thing or the the second
one after that would we would be to
tempt them to do the minor sins and once
again the minor sins are the Deeds that
are forbidden but they don't have a
punishment mentioned with them right
right or they are the sins that lead to
major sins such
as
uh looking at the opposite gender with
lust that's a step towards a Zena but in
of itself it is a form of Zena the zena
of the ey that's a minus right so if if
people are gazing at the opposite gender
with lust and desire that's a minor sin
a minor sin um
talking to woman
inappropriately that's going to lead to
the major sin so that becomes a minor
sin and so
on however there's something very
important here persistency upon a minor
sin makes it a major sin subh what makes
it a major sin is the persistency that
you're upon this consistent nonstop no
Toba in between no plan of doing a Toba
you just keep going one after the other
that makes it a major sin listening to
music repeatedly n of course so these
are major sins like listening to music
is a is a major sin is it because the
prophet cursed
it cursed it he
said two sounds that are cursed in this
worldly life he said the
to ring the bell at a time of
Calamity and M the blowing of the
trumpet and the use of musical
instruments at a time of joy and
celebration like what they do in
weddings and so on and graduations and
these are cursed sounds right and even
um the Hadith of of listening to the
music and then the uh molten or the iron
being poured
uh the uh the an which is the the iron
that is poured into the E now so so
these that makes it a major sin now so
the minor sin are the matters that lead
to the major sins and they don't have
any uh punishment or curse attached to
them but there's something important
also to know here and that is that minor
sins
are forgiven with the Good Deeds we do
so they don't require a special Toba so
you know when we perform our obligatory
prayers that wipes away the minor sins
between one Salat and another when you
make W and the sins you know how the
Hadith mentions that the sins drop as
you wash the face and the sins drop as
you wash that's speaking about the minor
sins that are going and every good deed
that you do wipes away the minor sins
Allah said
The Good Deeds take away the bad Deeds
there was a man that came to the
Messenger s and he said to him
Allah I saw a woman and I kissed her and
I touched her and I did things that were
inappropriate other than a Zen I did not
sleep with her in
Haram and he felt that he's going to be
doomed and destroyed doesn't know how to
react he went to the Messenger s
wasallam and told him that so s wasallam
didn't know what to say there was no
comment there was no there was no there
no guidance revealed yet so the man
walked away then Allah
revealed establish the prayer on the two
folds of the day and some parts of the
night that includes all the five daily
prayers for verily The Good
Deeds wipe away the bad Deeds the in
this a are the prayers the prayers wipe
away the bad Deeds so wasallam called
this man went they got him he came back
to wasallam he said to him did you pray
with us he said yes he said that good
deed has wiped away the bad deed of what
you had done then he
said is this for me
only or is this for anyone else that
does the same thing he
said it's a general a and a general rule
for everyone M so any major sin a minor
sin a person fell into the Good Deeds
wipe that away from his record so a
person needs to always be upon these
good deeds and this is with regret of
course of course of course of course
regret not premeditated I'm going to
pray I'll do it between being being
aware and conscious when you're doing
the good deed that you want Allah to
accept it and to forgive those minor
sins as a result of this good deed that
you're doing no and then afterwards
comes the last step and that is that if
he's not able to get you to do the minor
sin he'll distract you with choosing the
lesser of the good deeds and in terms of
what earns reward or or what's mu as
well what was reading there with you uh
The Next Step was what's what's mu and
wasting our time too much with with
what's mu okay yeah so that there's a
step before that maybe they won't
mention but the Step before that was he
makes you choose the lesser of two goods
so let's say for example um your parents
are calling you to do some kind of
Judy and you're wanting to read the
Quran that's good and that's good but
he'll trick you to do something that
earns you less than the other
right between let's say after the best
thing to do after the prayer is to do
your after the prayer but he'll say go
read Quran but the Quran is less
rewarding at this time because thear
after the prayer was legislated for
after the prayer so that is the best
thing and the most rewarding thing
after say he tricks some people make Dua
after the prayer right
yum after will earn you a lot more
reward you got it so two good deeds but
the one that has lesser reward he'll try
to take you there and if he fails in
doing so he'll distract you with the
permissible matters right to overindulge
into permissible things you know such as
eating and drinking and over sleeping
and whatever it is sleep sleep sleep a
little bit more don't worry about the
what is it called the night prayer and
sleep a lot more you need to rest
tomorrow inallah for a long day uh he
distracts you with permissible matters
and that we need to be careful of right
and he's always there and he'll repeat
the cycle and he'll come he'll try to
get you into a major sin as we said if
not he'll try to distract you from the
worship and he's always in your way even
to the very last moment as he presented
to Imam Ahmed at his deathbed and he
said IM Ahmed as he was
dying I couldn't get you oh IM yeah well
Imam Ahmed his son Abdullah was in the
room present as his father was dying and
he can hear you and his father entered
the un conscious State and he heard his
father saying no no no IM abdah his son
was saying in the story I was telling my
father to
say and the response I got from my dad
was no no
no so moments after when his father got
up from the unconscious State he said my
my dad I said to you he was saying no he
said Shan presented and whispered to me
that I have slipped from his hands and I
finally been saved and I said to him no
not yet I'm still alive even at that
moment you know is there that's why in
our when we make at the end we
say we say oh Allah save us from the FNA
of life which is the fan that we face
every day and the F of death the FNA of
death is when the Shan presents in the
final moment to cause you to doubt your
Dean to cause you to doubt that your
lord is Allah your Dean is Islam and
your Prophet is Muhammad sallallahu
alaihi wasallam so that's the importance
we make that Dua after every single at
the end of
it this is if you fall
into you can't be saved after that
that's it
if you fall
into you are doomed for the rest of your
life
whereas the of this world you still got
a chance you can make a Toba and come
back and turn back and that that Dua
there at that position is very very
important that's why we keep teaching
ourselves we remind ourselves make that
Dua be conscious
that if he accepted that Dua from you
he'll save you at that final moment with
your last battle with a we ask Allah to
preserve our deed to protect our IM to
make us from the people of the paradise
and to save us from the
he just just to finish off I know we we
skipped past the the fifth point I think
it was s around wasting time doing
things that are permissible um and I
think just if you want to finish it off
with as says an all out attack from the
Shan and just some advice on how we can
we can understand who our clear-cut
enemy is M okay I think um if there's
something that is of good advice that
could be given here I I do find that
there is a misunderstanding among many
of the youth as to what a righteous
steadfast believer is so some people
especially youth in the schools and I've
visited a couple of schools here during
the day in Melbourne and I shared this
topic with them but there is this idea
of that the steadfast righteous Muslim
is the one that's on his prayer map 24
hours of the
day uh obviously doesn't fall into any
sin no major no minor and he's just like
an angel walking on Earth and that's
really really far from what
steadfastness and righteousness is Allah
in the Quran when he described the the
pious the righteous he said about
them he said the pious the righteous are
those who either when they do a a major
sin look at the word means when not
Allah Allah did not say in if see if
teaches you that they might not do it
but if there means when it's just a
matter of time it could be a possibility
massive possibility a Allah speaking
about a righteous Pious person when they
do a major
sin or they wrong themselves with minor
Deeds minor sins Allah he
said right then and there they remember
Allah they seek Allah's
forgiveness who other than Allah who
forgive
sins and they not don't continue doing
what they did they don't persist upon
this
sin Subhan
Allah
that's a realistic image of righteous
people they fall into the sin but
they're very quick to remember Allah
immediately afterwards and turn to Allah
and that's the cycle in their
life whereas person that is not
righteous a realistic image of someone
that is not righteous Allah would
mention that
in he
said we made the Devils allies of those
who do not
believe who are these allies of the
devil what is a sign of a person who has
befriended a and now rides with
him said about
them it's the same thing here the friend
of if he was to commit a
sin a major
sin he doesn't follow up with rather
what does he follow up with Allah
says after the sin they'll say oh that's
what we found our forefathers doing
that's what Society is doing that's what
I that's what I saw on social media
that's what people are talking about
this is this is called the normalization
of the sin hey that's what people are
doing why are you hitting me for it why
are you condemning me for it why are you
reminding me go and upgrade yourself and
go and teach yourself this is this is
the Norms this is the day this is the
day and age people are singing and
uploading themselves dancing with songs
on social
media Society is doing this
see that they follow the sin with a
justification of the sin and a
normalization of the sin not knowing
that this is a lot worse than the sin
itself and then they will normalize it
so much that the sin afterwards becomes
disbelief they
say Allah commanded us to do this it
becomes part of their Dean it becomes
part of their Dean you know and I often
like to use the example of uh
homosexuality in society at the very
beginning people did the deed the sin
the second stage in society was to
normalize it normalize it spread the
word out Love Is Love what do you got to
do with people and leave it as it is
third stage they legislated it it became
part of the law you even had liberal
Muslims coming out and saying Allah uh
what was it they had they had this sign
of Allah loves such and such it became a
Dean for
them that's the Ally of thean does the
sin normalizes it and then ascribes it
to his
Dean and they'll tell you Allah doesn't
want to uh hold you back from fun yeah
basically you're saying this is part of
Allah's Dean and on the other side
righteousness meant you might fall into
the sin Vick of Allah forgiveness
seeking Allah's forgiveness and and then
not persisting on that
sin uh that's the realistic image we
wanted to end with that I ask Allah to
grant us goodness you thank you for
joining us today
alhamdulillah it's been an honor
alhamdulillah honestly I've actually
learned so much
subh it's a true
honor for joining us on another episode
of the strangest podcast inshah we'll be
bringing you more episodes in we'll be
more as long as we can benefit
fantastic